# GameStop_Stock_Prediction

**Motivation:**
In the financial world, stock market and its trends are highly volatile, and this attracts researchers to capture this volatility and predict its next moves. While the most common method for forecasting market trends is technical analysis which considers past price and volume to predict the future trend, some researchers have shown that there is a correlation between the public sentiments about the company and the stock prices. In this project, I am applying sentiment analysis and deep learning principles to determine the correlation between the “public sentiment” and the “market sentiment”.

**Introduction:**
GameStop (NYSE: GME) is the world’s largest video game retailer, best known in North America for their omnipresent brick and mortal stores. The rise of digital video games and online retail sales from the late 2000s contributed to the company’s steady decline over the following decades.
However, in the late January 2021, the company’s stock prices took an unprecedented turn for the better as amateur retail investors banded together online to buy GME shares simultaneously in a manic rush, driving up the share price and disrupting the short selling strategies of major Wall Street players and hedge fund managers. By mid-February, GME had risen in price from a starting point of under $20 USD to a pre-market peak of over $500 USD per share.
According to Business Insider (2021), GME was the most shorted stock on the New York Stock Exchange as of January 2021. Short selling is an investment strategy that speculates the decline of a stock’s price — i.e., someone who is selling a stock short stands to profit when the price of that stock declines over a certain period of time. A short squeeze occurs when, fearing losses due to upward stock price movement, short sellers rush to buy shares to cover their losses, thus further driving up demand for the stock and forcing its price upward even more. In this case, GME was the target of a short squeeze that appeared to be orchestrated in large part by members of Reddit’s r/wallstreetbets community.

**Solution:**
This event surrounding GameStop was in many ways highly irregular and out of the ordinary which means that conventional methods for stock price predictions may generalize poorly to such situations. Given the unique relationship between the subreddit and the GME turmoil, here is an attempt to determine the correlation between the sentiments of the redditors in the r/wallstreetbets community and GME price movement by predicting the direction of GME’s daily net price movement using sentiment from posts on r/wallstreetbets.
